# BIG-IP Configuration utility authenticated SQL injection - 20231101001

## Overview

An authenticated attacker with network access to the Configuration utility through the BIG-IP management port and/or self IP addresses may be able to execute arbitrary system commands. There is no data plane exposure; this is a control plane issue only.

F5 has observed threat actors using this vulnerability in combination with CVE-2023-46747.

**F5 have updated their advisory to include indicators of compromise - Please see the Recommendation section for details.**

## What is the vulnerability?

[**CVE-2023-46748**](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2023-46748) - CVSS v3 Base Score: ***8.8***

## What is vulnerable?

The vulnerability affects the following product from F5:

- BIG-IP
    - affected from 17.1.0
        - unaffected from Hotfix-BIGIP-17.1.0.3.0.75.4-ENG.iso
    - affected from 16.1.0
        - unaffected from Hotfix-BIGIP-16.1.4.1.0.50.5-ENG.iso
    - affected from 15.1.0
        - unaffected from Hotfix-BIGIP-15.1.10.2.0.44.2-ENG.iso
    - affected from 14.1.0
        - unaffected from Hotfix-BIGIP-14.1.5.6.0.10.6-ENG.iso
    - affected from 13.1.0
        - 13.1.5.1 + Hotfix-BIGIP-13.1.5.1.0.20.2-ENG.iso

## What has been observed?

There is no evidence of exploitation affecting Western Australian Government networks at the time of publishing.

## Recommendation

The WA SOC recommends administrators apply the solutions as per vendor instructions to all affected devices within expected timeframe of 2 weeks (refer [Patch Management](../guidelines/patch-management.md)):

- [BIG-IP Configuration utility authenticated SQL injection vulnerability CVE-2023-46748](https://my.f5.com/manage/s/article/K000137365)

Review your environment for **indicators of compromise**:

F5 has observed threat actors using this vulnerability in combination with CVE-2023-46747. Below are the indicators of compromise observed with CVE-2023-46748.

You may see entries in the /var/log/tomcat/catalina.out file similar to the following example:

```
{...}
java.sql.SQLException: Column not found: 0.
{...)
sh: no job control in this shell
sh-4.2$ <EXECUTED SHELL COMMAND>
sh-4.2$ exit.
```

In the previous example, note the following:

In the line of Column not found: 0, the 0 can be replaced with a different number.
In the line of <EXECUTED SHELL COMMAND>, the command will be replaced with a different command.
